---
layout: post
title: ADS
description: >
 A PHP Web Application developed for RIT's College of Computing and Information
 Sciences.
category: project
feature-img: "projects/assets/AdminOps/AdminOpsHeader3.png"
hidden: true
skills: ["HTML", "CSS", "JavaScript", "jQuery", "PHP", "MySQL"]
--- 

The Administrative Data System (ADS) was a web application that was developed for RIT's College of Computing and Information Sciences. ADS allowed the studnet advising departments to update and keep track of student records. 
I and a team of 2 other people, came in during the second phase fo development. Our goal was to maintain the system and add new features as needed.

## Tasks

ADS involved two major systems: **a database of student records and a web client to access it**. My work frequently involved moving between these systems, which meant I had to flex both my front-end and my back-end muscles! 

### Interacting with the Database

On the back-end, one of my major tasks creating tables in a MySQL database and writing PHP scripts to retrieve information from the database tables. I had never used PHP before, so I had to learn on the job! We used a library called [MeekroDB](http://meekro.com/) to connect to our database and execute custom SQL queries. Once retrieved, data would be stored in a wrapper class that could more easily be interacted with.

### Consistent Styling

On the front-end one of our jobs was to implement a common style on all sections of the site. Previously, many sections used page-specific styling, which led to inconsistencies. We were responsible for implementing new pages with this framework and updating existing pages to use it.

### Retreiving Information with AJAX 

Communication between the database and the client was handled through AJAX requests. We used jQuery's ajax module to send JSON data to PHP scripts, which would parse it and store it in the database.
