---
layout: post
title: Plotter
description: >
 A JavaScript Canvas library designed to display graphs for the Virtual Heart
 for the Rochester Institute of Technology's College of Science
category: project
feature-img: "projects/assets/AdminOps/AdminOpsHeader3.png"
hidden: true
skills: ["HTML", "CSS", "JavaScript", "HTML5 Canvas"]
--- 

Plotter is a JavaScript canvas library made for the Virtual Heart, a project by the Rochester Institute of Technology's College of Science. The Virtual Heart aims to create 

##Tasks

### Porting Java Applets

### Drawing Efficiently
Many of these plots involve creating plots t

### Creating a Build System

 

---
Plotter is a canvas library that I am currently working on for the Rochester Institute of Technology's College of Science. This is a long term project, so it is still under development, but I thought I would share some of the features and changes I've added since I began working on it.

##Background

<!-- put image of Plotter graph here -->
Plotter is a JavaScript canvas library that was developed as part of an initiative by the Virtual Heart, a project created by the Rochester Institute of Technology's College of Science. The Virtual Heart team had previously been developing interactive graphs using Java applets. However, with Google's decision to discontinue support for NPAPI from Chrome, they decided they needed to switch to a JavaScript implementation. 

##My Role
I came onto the project about three months into its development. By this point, much of the API had been developed and graphing functionality had been implemented. My job was to use this to use the library to convert existing Java Applets, and to make any necessary changes to Plotter itself.

##Managing Lots of Points
When working on the plot Noble0d, I realized that the methods I was using to plot points wouldn't work if I had a lot of points. I could make improvements to the rendering methods, but at the end of the day, I needed to come up with a way to aggregate points.

To do this, I created a PointBuffer object. This buffer created the points

##Moving to Modules
When I took over, one of the things I worked on was making the code for individual plots more modular. Previously, plots were managed in a single file with everything in the global scope. This worked well enough for smaller graphs, but it quickly became confusing when managing larger applications. 

Heavily inspired by [this post](http://codepen.io/vinsongrant/post/a-clean-way-to-write-javascript) I set out to separate the logic into modules. I came up with 3 core modules: one to handle the form functionality, a calculator module to calculate point values, and a plot module that handled graphing by wrapping Plotter functionality. In addition created a PointBuffer to manage the points generated by the calculator, and a mediator to handle the interactions between the calculator, the buffer, and the plot modules in such a way that the form could easily interact with it. I also created a utility module to handle some of the more 